All right, cool.
Let's go through, well,
get into the last exercise.
So as before,
we once again have our index.js that is,
once again,
the thing that we're gonna run.
And unlike the other sections, we're all
done with typecheck.js that's still there,
it's doing its job,
whether someone's using it.
But now we have our new thing of wasm.js
which is what we're actually gonna have
our little section to mess around in.
So let's cd into part 7 and
run this, and there we go.
We're getting a whole bunch of WebAssembly
errors that are not working out right now.
Even for
our test titled simple numeric edition,
we're even blowing up on
simple numeric addition.
Can you imagine it?
As you may recall, we have done
quite a lot with binary operators,
the two that we support being plus and
times.
So right here, basically what we wanna do
is we want to use Webassembly's magical
numbers to tell Webassembly, hey
Webassembly, it's multiplication time, or
hey Webassembly, it is addition time.
All we have to do, essentially,
is to just go look for
the global OP constant,
which is short for operator.
So that is back up at the top of
the file somewhere, there it is.
That was it, yeah.
So as you can see,
there's a whole bunch of different
operations that WebAssembly supports.
Let me get back there.
So we got BLOCK, LOOP, IF, ELSE, END,
blah, blah, blah, on, and on, and on.
And then in here we have
a whole bunch of F64 specific,
F64 being our number type operations,
such as add, subtract, multiply.
So of course we are interested
in these two out of all of them.
I definitely recommend
referencing the constant.
You could just put the hard-coded
number in there, but
nobody's gonna ever remember
what that's all about.
So I would definitely recommend not
doing that if you could avoid it.
But yeah, so basically what we wanna do
is in both cases, we want to set this
variable called opCode because what
we end up returning is concatBytes.
Again, concatBytes being essentially
the same thing as concatString,
except that we're concatenating bytes
instead of a string like we were at
the very beginning with the formatter.
So what we're gonna do here is essentially
say, okay, I'm going to concat left,
which is basically where we have sort of
recursively gone down this path as usual
doing a visit type thing where we're
just going down and building up bytes,
bytes, bytes, bytes.
We say, okay, take all the stuff
that we had on the left, and
then we take all the stuff on the right,
and then that goes right after that.
So you can imagine this big, long chunk of
bytes and this big, long chunk of bytes,
and then after that we put the actual
opCode that we want to apply to those.
Now, the reason they're in this order is,
again, going back to the WebAssembly,
is a stack machine thing.
So what WebAssembly wants you to do is,
essentially, when it sees this opCode,
it says, aha,
I see you want me to do this operation.
You'd better have put the two parameters
to that on the stack already.
You better have put that one here and
that one here,
because that's where I'm
expecting them to be.
I expect them to be right
in front of the operation.
Whereas, of course,
if we were writing this in JavaScript,
we would put it in the middle.
So we'd go like, put the opCode,
whether it's plus, or minus, or times, or
whatever, in the middle, and then we put
the other operand on the other side, but
WebAssembly doesn't want it in that order.
Now, that's a pretty minor little
swap around, but you can kind of see,
if you squint, we're doing the same
stuff that we would do in a formatter,
just at a slightly different order and
with slightly different constants.
So this is our one thing.
It's a little light one to end on.
Get a little WebAssembly in the mix and
let's just take five minutes and
work through it.
>> Richard Feldman: Great, all right,
let's go through the final
set of solutions.
It's a pretty simple one this time.
So basically,
we're doing a switch on node.operator.
If we wanted to add support for more in
the future, of course we could, but for
right now, we've just got plus and times.
So the cases here are pretty
straightforward, it's just like,
OP.F64_ADD, F64_MUL.
If you wanted to know the full range
of things that WebAssembly supports,
this is where you'd sort of
just go to documentation.
You can just find a long lists of here
they are, here's what the magic numbers
are that correspond to these,
but pretty straightforward.
At this point, just put it in there,
assign it to that thing, and we are good.
One other note on this
is that at this point,
we've already sort of generated the thing
that's going to be the first operand and
the thing that's going to
be the second operand.
If it is conceivable that not in the case
of plus and times obviously, but you might
actually need to potentially generate
these in a different order depending on
if you have operator specific things
that you need to do with these things.
In this case, that doesn't come up, but
just like with everything else that we've
talked, Cogen is something where sometimes
you have a nice neat pattern like this,
and then other times it's sort of like,
yeah, in this situation it's fine.
But then as soon as I introduce a raise,
wait a minute, now there's an edge case,
and stuff like that.
So all these things that
we're looking at here,
this is kind of
the simplified version of it.
It's like not necessarily
as simple as you can get.
I try to kinda strike a balance with
like interesting type system and
code gen features, and whatnot with,
something that's so easily digestible.
But when you think about what's the
difference between this code right here
and a big production gigantic
million line of code compiler?
A lot of it just has to do with,
there's just way more edge cases
around little stuff like this.
But if you kinda blur the lines
a little bit, you can be like,
okay, I can still see the same
basic fundamentals around this.
They just have a lot more conditionals
in between in a lot of cases.
So alright, so now we've got
our opcodes in there, and hey,
look at that simple numeric
addition in WebAssembly.
It's a beautiful thing.
Any questions on WebAssembly before
we go to our final little wrap up,
summarize everything
that we learned section?